# Home_Sales_SparkSQL
- - - 

Summary

* The purpose of this repository is to understand 1. how to use Spark, SparkSQL, and Spark DataFrames. 2. review the query processing times for large datasets that are cashed, uncashed, and read from a .parquet file.

* Home_Sales_colab.ipynb - the Jupyter Notebook file that was processed in Google Colab reads the dataset from a static URL and queries are ran from a temporary view of the dataset cashed and uncashed before being saved and read as a .parquet file.

* home_sales_partitioned_parquet.zip - zipped download of the resulting .parquet file from Google Colab.

- - - 

## Instructions
1. Rename the `Home_Sales_starter_code.ipynb` file as `Home_Sales.ipynb`.

2. Import the necessary PySpark SQL functions for this assignment.

3. Read the `home_sales_revised.csv` data in the starter code into a Spark DataFrame.

4. Create a temporary table called `home_sales`.

5. Answer the following questions using SparkSQL:

    - What is the average price for a four-bedroom house sold for each year? Round off your answer to two decimal places.

    - What is the average price of a home for each year it was built that has three bedrooms and three bathrooms? Round off your answer to two decimal places.

    - What is the average price of a home for each year that has three bedrooms, three bathrooms, two floors, and is greater than or equal to 2,000 square feet? Round off your answer to two decimal places.

    - What is the "view" rating for homes costing more than or equal to $350,000? Determine the run time for this query, and round off your answer to two decimal places.

6. Cache your temporary table `home_sales`.

7. Check if your temporary table is cached.

8. Using the cached data, run the query that filters out the view ratings with an average price of greater than or equal to $350,000. Determine the runtime and compare it to uncached runtime.

9. Partition by the "date_built" field on the formatted parquet home sales data.

10. Create a temporary table for the parquet data.

11. Run the query that filters out the view ratings with an average price of greater than or equal to $350,000. Determine the runtime and compare it to uncached runtime.

12. Uncache the `home_sales` temporary table.

13. Verify that the `home_sales` temporary table is uncached using PySpark.

14. Download your `Home_Sales.ipynb` file and upload it into your "Home_Sales" GitHub repository.

- - - 

## References

Data for this dataset was generated by edX Boot Camps LLC, and is intended for educational purposes only.

- - - 

© 2023 edX Boot Camps LLC